..  include:: /Includes.rst.txt

=====
2.0.0
=====

This new release supports TYPO3 v11.4. For more information see
:ref:`section-system-requirement`. Lots of changes and improvements have been
made, enjoy the renewed backend_roles extension.

.. only:: html

   .. contents::
        :local:
        :depth: 3


Breaking changes
================

Change vendor name
------------------

The vendor name of the composer package changed from `aaw-team/backend_roles` to
`christianfutterlieb/backend_roles`. See commit
`7085ec011039560fb94642afb5b4767d2d8a41a8
<https://github.com/christianfutterlieb/backend_roles/commit/7085ec011039560fb94642afb5b4767d2d8a41a8>`_.


Add `runTests.sh`
----------------

Testing (and other processes) are handeled by a bash script `runTests.sh`, as it
is done in TYPO3 core. The following composer scripts have been removed:

*    `php-cs-fixer`
*    `run-tests`

See commit
`cb2426677fe870595a05e57988b777b0d5ccec82
<https://github.com/christianfutterlieb/backend_roles/commit/cb2426677fe870595a05e57988b777b0d5ccec82>`_.


Features
========

Support for YAML-based configuration
------------------------------------

Role definitions can now be stored in YAML files as well. See
:ref:`section-configuration-roledefinition` for more information.

In the backend module, the export of `be_groups` supports YAML too.


Support for global configuration
--------------------------------

Role definitions can now be stored in the global `config` directory. See
:ref:`section-configuration-roledefinition` for more information.


Download role definitions export as file
----------------------------------------

Role definitions exports can now be downloaded as YAML or PHP file.


Deprecations
============

Role definitions file name
--------------------------

The use of the role definition file `Configuration/RoleDefinitions.php` is
deprecated an will be removed in v3. Use
`Configuration/BackendRoleDefinitions.php` instead, or the newly introduced
possibility of global role definitions in `config/BackendRoleDefinitions.yaml`
or `config/BackendRoleDefinitions.php`.


All Changes
===========

This is a list of all changes in this release:

::

    8095056 [TASK] Improve documentation
    5aed246 [TASK] Sort backend roles selector by label
    dd7a9eb [BUGFIX] No need to deprecate Configuration/RoleDefinitions.yaml
    0924768 [FEATURE] Add changelog to documentation
    36c1f69 [!!!][TASK] Unify role definitions file name
    8033acc [TASK] Change version in the documentation
    af1d3c3 [TASK] Add more documentation
    16969c1 [FEATURE] Add documentation
    0aac702 [FEATURE] Add possibility to download role definitions as file
    7f9bfd5 [FEATURE] Add YAML configuration export to the BackendModule
    7c59f5d [FEATURE] Add support for global configuration storage
    2bbce66 [FEATURE] Add support for YAML configuration
    e6a4f45 !!![FEATURE] Improve definition loading and handling
    b0aa799 [TASK] Move roleIdentifier selector generation to an itemsProcFunc
    4cd4154 [TASK] Remove deprecated constants
    d90cafb [TASK] Add package branch alias "dev-2"
    8906a74 [TASK] Apply cgl
    cb24266 [!!!][FEATURE] Add runTests.sh - a docker-based test runner
    0dbf3d6 [TASK] Re-define dev-dependencies
    e48bf80 [TASK] Update dependencies
    7085ec0 [!!!][TASK] Change package name
    e4d1288 [BUGFIX] Fix PHP 8 problems
    3fe98a8 [TASK] Remove homegrown errorcode
    7714788 [TASK] Reset version to 2.0.0-dev
    f8238a0 [RELEASE] Release version 2.0.0-beta1
    fe98c3c [TASK] Return ResponseInterface in controller action when possible
    f3592e2 [TASK] Remove usage of generic extbase domain classes
    607aa1c [TASK] Adapt .gitignore
    4ddb751 [TASK] Update dependency requirements
    b5c9446 [TASK] Allow composer plugins
    750dad6 [TASK] Remove outdated code
    80a0ed8 [TASK] Update composer.json
    d41dc96 [TASK] Move build directory
    dc0adaf [TASK] Raise version to 2.0.0-dev
    0d72159 [TASK] Add README.md
    879cfe4 [TASK] Raise version to 1.1.4-dev

Generated with `git log 1.1.3..HEAD --oneline --no-decorate`
